<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="hozierProject.css"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="hozierProject.css" />
        <title>About</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <!-- The navigation menu -->
        
        <section>
            <!--#include virtual="toc.xhtml" -->
        </section>
       
        <!-- Page Content -->
        <h1>Who is Hozier?</h1>
        <ul>
            <li><p>Andrew Hozier-Byrne, known professionally as Hozier, is a 31-year-old Irish
                   musician known for his unique music style. Hozier’s songs consist of a mix of
                   blues, gospel, and soul music that has led him to international fame. He is most
                   well-known for his song “Take Me to Church”, which peaked at 100 on the U.S.
                   Billboard charts. To date, he has released two full-length albums: “Hozier” and
                   “Wasteland, Baby!”. Prior to his solo success, he toured with an Irish choral
                   group known as Anuna.</p></li>
            <li><h3>Writing Style</h3></li>
            <li><p>Hozier is a self-taught guitar player and songwriter. In an interview, he said that he tries to 
                    record more from his home to create a sound that he feels closer to. He says he likes to start 
                    with some sort of core feeling or a few lines that convey a message. From there, he loosely 
                    plays with ideas and melodies until he finds what he likes. He describes his writing style as 
                    simple and straightforward; “I try not to lean too much on verbose phrases, attempting to cut 
                    right to the heart of the sentiment.”</p></li>
            <li><h3>Hozier and Religion</h3></li>
            <li><p>Religion has been a source of frustration for Hozier. He grew up Catholic, but
                   found the church very hypocritical. He channeled this anger into his breakout
                   hit “Take Me to Church’. Despite his frustrations, he says that he wouldn’t
                   label himself as an atheist, and is comfortable not knowing much about higher
                   powers. In an interview with Ireland’s National Public Service Radio, Hozier
                   says that he has strong opinions regarding the Catholic church and says that the
                   effects of religion are certainly generational. He goes on to say that the
                   damage the church has done to Ireland is “irreparable”, and he believes faith as
                   a whole is an absurd concept.</p></li>
        </ul>
        <h1>About the Project</h1>
        <ul>
            <li><h3>Research Question</h3></li>
            <li><p>Through Hozier’s lyrics on his self-titled album “Hozier”, we will analyze the 
                    way in which religion is expressed through song and how that relates to his view 
                    of religion and it’s impact on society. </p></li>
            <li><h3>Background</h3></li>
            <li><p>Hozier's debut album was chosen for this project because it featured his more prominent hit "Take Me to Church", 
                    which deals directly with his relationship with religion. The reason religion is the focus of this project is because
                    the topic is incredibly complicated for so many people, and Hozier explores this at length in his album in a way that is unique
                    and poetic. Hozier's indepth look at religion, particularly Catholicism, in his album allows for listeners to get a feel for the 
                    impact that it's had on nearly every aspect of his life. The hope of the project was to analyze Hozier's relationship with religion
                    and not only gain a better understanding of religion in society as a whole.</p></li>
            <li><h3>Methods</h3></li>
            <li><p>The first step in this project was gathering all of the texts and marking them up. Each song's lyrics were put into an 
                    individual xml document and then tagged. The tags we used pertained to specific religious content, such as religious places or figures,
                    as well as literary devices. After this was done, we were left with markup that with which we coulud analyze religion and how it's
                    used as a literary device within his lyrics.</p></li>
            <li><h3>Literary Devices</h3></li>
            <li><p>The lyrics of Hozier are ripe with literary devices, particularly metaphors and allegories. We chose to look 
                    at the way in which Hozier turns religion into a literary device, and uses it to describe the effect it's had on 
                    his life.</p></li>
            <li><h3>About Us</h3></li>
            <li><p>Sarah Jacobson is a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh studying English and political science. Prior to this course they had very minimal coding exposure.</p></li>
            <li><p>Lauren Stanick is a senior at the University of Pittsburgh studying.</p></li>
            <li><h3>Acknowledgements</h3></li>
            <li><p></p></li>
        </ul>
            <h1>References and Links</h1>
            <ul>
                <li><h3>References</h3></li>
                <li>https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-news/behind-hoziers-unlikely-rise-60949</li>
                <li>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NWNei3QNAD8</li>
                <li>https://www.rte.ie/entertainment/2014/0609/622594-hozier</li>
                <li>https://americansongwriter.com/writer-week-hozier/</li>
                <li>https://genius.com/artists/Hozier</li>
                <li><h3>Other Links</h3></li>
            </ul>    
    </body>
</html>
